See Vaughn's Web site looks like this Seabourn is a Python module that's actually based on Mac Puntland
but it has some nice extra features you can think of seaborne like matte plot layered Bonds steroids.
If not plot lib was Lance Armstrong then Seabourn is still Lance Armstrong.
Lance Armstrong on the Tour de France.
So let's import the Seabourn module at the top of the notebook as s and s right.
Import seaborne as S.A. an edge shift into in the cell below the histogram we're gonna make use of one
of seaborne functions.
We're gonna make use of the dist plot function so S.A. don't this plot parentheses data square brackets
single quotes price in all caps and then enter BLT dot show parentheses see Bourne's this plot function
only needs a single argument namely the data meant to plot and we're gonna plot the target values and
we're gonna see how this compares with Matt.
Plot loops histogram function limit shift end.
And here we can see that straight out of the box we get a very beautiful graph we get both a histogram
and an estimate of the probability density function.
The probability density function is the darker squiggly line that's superimposed on top of this diagram.
This is the line that estimates the distribution of the data and I think this is a neat little addition
that Seabourn provides as an add on to the histogram.
Now of course we can make the seaborne plot look a lot more like matte plot lib.
So for starters I could size it differently.
So I'm going to take this line of code here.
Copy it.
Good on him.
Paste that press shift into can see that's a bit larger but easier to see but we can also modify the
number of arguments.
This this plot here ticks so it also has the beans argument that we can give it and I can give it 50.
So now this ties out with what we see up here from Mad Lib and then we can also show and hide the two
bits of the graph here.
The PDA for probability density function and the histogram.
So if I come up here to the arguments and I put hist equals false with a capital F and hit shift enter.
It hides the histogram and we're just left with the probability density function which is the estimate
for the distribution.
And of course we can also do it the other way around.
So if I write K D E equals false and then change the Hist argument to true then we're hiding the probability
density function and just showing the histogram and in terms of styling you can also grab a different
color here.
So if I want to go with a yellow palette for example pick this hex code go back here.
And then add the color argument as a keyword and pasted hex code in it shift enter and then we'll see
it like so now in retrospect I don't think this was actually a wise choice.
This is very very low contrast.
I might have to go for something like this which is a bit more Amber and substitute that for the yellow.
And this makes the histogram a lot more clear.
All right so I think this is a really good time for a challenge.
See if you can investigate and visualize two other features of the dataset and also have a question
for you.
How many rooms do you think that the average property in Boston has.
What do you think.
What's the total number of rooms for a property in Boston.
So including bedrooms living rooms bathrooms etc..
Have you made your guess.
Okay so for this challenge we're gonna be checking the answer.
We're gonna have a look at the R M feature.
Can you write the python code to plot this on a histogram and visualize the number of rooms per dwelling
and then figure out what the average number of rooms is for a property in Boston Massachusetts.
I think this would be fairly straightforward.
Uh you can use either my plot lib or Seabourn to generate your histogram punt.
Maybe have a think about what you would expect beforehand.
Ready.
Here's the solution.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm going to take this cell here and I'm going to copy the cell come down here
and edit paste the sell and then what do we do is going to change the code here somewhere.
Substitute M for price.
I'm going to delete the bins.
Think this is no longer what we want.
I'm just gonna pick a different color so maybe I'm gonna go for teal It was dark teal here just to differentiate
the chant a little bit and then I'm going to change the x label here because we're no longer looking
at the price we're looking at.
Then number of rooms in fact this is the average number of rooms and when it shift into
and the chant that I get back looks like this we can see that the highest bar is around the number six.
In other words most of the properties in Boston have around 6 rooms.
I don't know about you but that actually seems pretty big actually because if you think about it.
Bedroom living room kitchen bathroom.
That adds up to 4 if you add another bedroom.
Then you have 5 but the average is 6.
So think they have a linen closet that they're counting or they have two bathrooms or three bedrooms.
Now of course we don't know anything about the size of the rooms but still I'm going to venture a guess
that six rooms on average doesn't seem to be too shabby.
Hi I certainly wouldn't mind living somewhat with six rooms.
That's palatial by London standards.
Now we just eyeballed this graph to figure out the average number of rooms.
What have we wanted to know an exact number for the average well pandas.
Also has you covered for that.
So what we can do is come down here and access our our own data series so data square brackets and then
arm put it done after it and then call the mean function so data square brackets R.M. dot mean parentheses.
So here we're calling the mean method on our series object and hitting shift enter.
We see that the true average is six point to eight.